# Footprint Authentication Model

This repository contains the code for a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model that can be used for footprint authentication. The model is trained on a dataset of footprint images and can be used to identify individuals based on their footprints.

## Prerequisites

To run the code in this repository, you will need the following:

- Python 3.6 or later
- TensorFlow 2.0 or later
- Keras 2.3 or later
- ImageDataGenerator from Keras

## Getting Started

To get started, clone this repository to your local machine:

```
git clone https://github.com/innextinit/footprint-authentication-model.git
```

Once you have cloned the repository, you can install the required dependencies by running the following command in the terminal:

```
yarn install
```

## Training the Model

The model is trained on a dataset of footprint images. The dataset is divided into two parts: a training set and a validation set. The training set is used to train the model, while the validation set is used to evaluate the performance of the model.

To train the model, run the following command in the terminal:

```
yarn train
```

This command will train the model for 10 epochs. The model will be saved to the `saved_models` directory after training.

## Evaluating the Model

Once the model is trained, you can evaluate its performance on the validation set by running the following command in the terminal:

```
yarn evaluate
```

This command will print the accuracy and loss of the model on the validation set.

## Using the Model

The trained model can be used to identify individuals based on their footprints. To use the model, you will need to provide an image of a footprint. The model will then predict the identity of the individual who made the footprint.

To use the model, run the following command in the terminal:

```
python predict.py <path_to_image>
```

This command will print the predicted identity of the individual who made the footprint.

## Conclusion

This repository contains the code for a CNN model that can be used for footprint authentication. The model is trained on a dataset of footprint images and can be used to identify individuals based on their footprints.

Generated by [BlackboxAI](https://www.blackbox.ai)
